hey you guys so if you're the horror
movies chances are that you've heard of
the Texas Chainsaw Massacre so I was
going to make a video about it but
during some of my research for the movie
I read that it is loosely based on the
story of Ed Gein now just like with most
other movies that claim to be based on
real-life events and then proceeded to
tell a mostly fictional story I thought
that the shocking true story behind this
movie was going to be that some dude
owned a chainsaw
once but as I read just a little deeper
into the story I can honestly say that
I've rarely ever read such a bizarre and
crazy story and my guess is that you'll
feel the same way so let's get into the
real story that inspired the Texas Chain
Saw movies the story takes place in
Plainfield Wisconsin it's a fairly small
town at the time it had less than a
thousand people living there one day in
1956 people find the local hardware
store has blood stains all over the
floor and the owner is missing the same
day Ed Gein is arrested and the story
that inspired multiple iconic horror
movies is born but what happened for
that we have to go back to 1906 this is
the year that Ed was born and his
parents weren't great to say the least
his father couldn't hold down a job and
therefore decided to take the little
money he had left and buy a farm in
Plainfield where he would live with his
family this farm would be disconnected
from the rest of the town and left the
Gein family virtually isolated while ed
and his brother were growing up their
mother made sure that they got as little
outside influence as possible she made
sure that nobody got too close to her
boys but eventually ed got to the age
where he had to attend school there was
little to nothing she could do against
this as it was required by law so she
forced out to come home the minute
school was over the mother is obviously
showing some pretty domineering traits
and she believed that humanity and the
world was evil and she would constantly
tell her sons this and even punished
them if they tried to make friends but
who the mother truly couldn't stand for
other women she told her sons that all
women are nothing but a bad influence
that is controlled by the devil all
except herself of course so with no
friends no girls and little to no time
outside the farm the brothers spent
their time at home working and doing
menial chores with all of this you would
expect it to slowly develop a strong
hate towards his mother but actually the
opposite
true ed thought his mother was his best
friend later on to no one's surprise edy
developed fairly strange habits his
classmates recall him randomly laughing
in class when there was nothing to laugh
at and he would also stare at people in
a way that most people described as
creepy despite his abuse of an unhealthy
childhood it seemingly became a fairly
normal adult he and his brother were
both looked at as genuinely nice and
helpful people in the community ed would
even babysit other people's children and
he seemed to really enjoy it
as adults he and his brother would still
live in Plainfield on the farm and also
do some work there so it seems like Ed's
childhood was certainly the low point of
his life but that trend would soon start
to reverse in 1940 his father died the
cause of which was closely related to
his alcoholism later on in 1944 while ed
and his brother were working on the farm
a small and initially controlled fire
got completely out of control burning
away a good chunk of their land
the fire department eventually arrived
and slowly got things under control just
after the fires were extinguished and
everything seemed to be back on track
his brother was nowhere to be found he
told the authorities about this and a
search party formed quickly to help find
his brother he will soon discovered
lying on the floor dead with his face
down in the dirt
so now it's just ed and his mother since
he was very close to his mother he still
did enjoy this time as he regarded his
mother as his best friend and during
this time they spent more time together
as ed would actively take care of her
unfortunately this was only short-lived
as she also died just a year later
shortly after she had her second stroke
so after the fourth tragedy in just five
years
Ed's family is dead and he is alone no
family no career he continued to live on
the farm and it's at this point that it
becomes known as well just how eerily
close
ed and his mother were he started to
board up all the rooms that she had used
the most and made sure that they were in
a perfect and untouched condition with a
big form alter zone he slowly started to
slip further into a deeply unstable
state and during this time he started to
become obsessed with ever increasingly
violent stories so here we are the
winter of 1956 a local store owner is
missing but of course people don't take
it too seriously at first I mean a
grown-up not being seen for 24 hours
that could mean a million different
things but things didn't seem so
innocent once people found numerous
bloodstains on the floor of the store
the son of the owner noticed that the
last person to enter the store the night
before was Ed Gein and the last receipt
written was for a bottle of antifreeze
the same exact thing that Ed wanted to
buy so the police find an arrest ed and
head to the farmhouse to investigate
this a little more and potentially find
the evidence they arrived at the farm
and made their way into the shed this is
where the cops found the store owner
decapitated she had hung upside down
with the wrists tied up they found out
that she had been shot and after her
death the body was completely mutilated
similar to the way that you would gut
livestock after this the police slowly
made their way into the house it's here
where they found a ton of human bones a
basket made out of human hair skulls
with a top stone off bowls made from
skulls and clothing made from skin in
the description I've linked it to a
website if you want to see the entire
list giving you over 10 more items that
were found but the worst thing they
discovered in my opinion was an ominous
looking paper
an officer reached into it and what he
found inside was a woman's face that was
cut off and had been turned into a mask
the woman was later identified as a
person who had been missing who ed had
also killed so what happened was that
the vast majority of these items were
taken off of people's dead bodies while
they were aligned six feet under in a
nearby graveyard
so it was digging up dead people and
would use their bones hair and skin when
the police asked why why on earth he
would create something that looked like
a full-body suit made out of human skin
that was stolen from female corpses he
said that he wanted to become like his
mother and crawl inside her skin
needless to say he was put on trial for
his crimes afterward she was put into a
mental hospital for the criminally
insane he later died of lung cancer in a
different mental hospital in 1984 so if
you pay close attention and you love
horror films as much as I do you
probably noticed that this seems eerily
similar to a number of cuts of various
horror films and there is no coincidence
Ed Gein did not just inspire the
filmmakers of the Texas Chainsaw
Massacre but also Alfred Hitchcock's
Psycho and American Horror Story Asylum
as well as more than half a dozen films
that were loosely based on his crimes so
that's it for the story let me know what
you thought of it
anyways I hope you enjoyed it and I hope
that I get to see you guys in the next
video thanks for watching
you